[REDESIGN] What is QML section (#38)
XanaduAI/qml: whatisqml.rst

`Differentiable programming <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Differentiable_programming>`_
is the very basis of deep learning, implemented in software libraries such as TensorFlow and PyTorch.
**Differentiable programming is also more than deep learning: it is a programming paradigm where steps of an
algorithm are not hand-coded, but learned.**

.. figure:: /_static/whatisqml/applications.png
    :align: center
    :width: 65%
    :target: javascript:void(0);

Similarly, the idea of trainable quantum computations is larger than quantum machine learning. It includes,
and in fact originates from, other fields like **quantum chemistry**, **quantum optimization**,
and extends to a variety of applications such as the **design of quantum algorithms**
or **quantum error correction**.

PennyLane for differentiable quantum computing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

PennyLane is a **software framework that is built around the concept of
differentiable quantum computation**. It seamlessly integrates classical machine learning libraries with
and quantum simulators and hardware to give users the power to train quantum circuits themselves.

> To find out more, visit the `PennyLane Documentation <https://pennylane.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>`_, or

Reviewer: (Gives us the freedom to more easily change the rtds default build if we need to in the future)
```suggestion
To find out more, visit the `PennyLane Documentation <https://pennylane.readthedocs.io>`_, or
```

.. role:: html(raw)
   :format: html

What is Quantum Machine Learning?
=================================

Quantum machine learning is a field at the intersection of artificial intelligence and physics,
which investigates a new way in which machines can learn from data.

> Replacing classical hardware by quantum computers

Author: Last one sounds best

> For example, quantum machine learning researchers want to find out whether quantum computers can speed up the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, we might want to find out whether quantum computers can speed up the
```

can improve the generalization performance on unseen data.

Quantum computers as AI accelerators
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: /_static/whatisqml/gpu_to_qpu.png
    :align: right
    :width: 45%
    :target: javascript:void(0);

The limits of what machines can learn have always been defined by the computer hardware
we run our algorithms on—for example, the success of modern-day deep learning with neural networks is
enabled by parallel GPU clusters.

**Quantum machine learning extends the pool of hardware for machine learning by an entirely
new type of computing device—the quantum computer.** Information processing with quantum computers
relies on substantially different laws of physics known as *quantum theory*.

Machine learning with near-term quantum devices
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> .. image:: /_static/whatisqml/quantum_devices_ai.png

Reviewer 2: tiny suggestion, but maybe have just one question mark above FT QPUs. 3 question marks makes it seems like we are really confused, rather than just speculating :laughing:

:html:`<br>`

.. figure:: /_static/whatisml/quantum_devices_ai.png
    :align: center
    :width: 80%
    :target: javascript:void(0);

    Current day quantum computers are special purpose chips.

:html:`<br>`

While a lot of research focuses on ideal, universal quantum processing units (QPUs) whose development
is still a thing of the future, a large share of quantum machine learning
is interested in near term quantum devices :cite:`farhi2018classification`
:cite:`schuld2018circuit` :cite:`grant2018hierarchical` :cite:`liu2018differentiable`.
One can understand these devices
as special purpose hardware in between Application-Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs) and
Field-Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs).

Using quantum devices like neural networks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

:html:`<br>`

.. figure:: /_static/whatisml/trainable_circuit.png
    :align: center
    :width: 70%
    :target: javascript:void(0);

>     Quantum algorithms can be trained and used like neural networks.

Author: No, I swapped them back in the caption

:html:`<br>`

> In the near-term branch of quantum machine learning,

Reviewer 2: Another place where we could say something a bit stronger, e.g., 
```suggestion
In the modern viewpoint on quantum machine learning,
```
could also replace "modern" with "cutting-edge" or "bleeding-edge"

> **quantum devices are used and trained like neural networks**.

Author: Made all three bold...

This is done by systematically adapting the physical control parameters,
such as an electromagnetic field strength or a laser pulse frequency, to solve a machine learning problem.

> Afterwards, the trained circuit can for example be used to classify the content of images - by encoding

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, the trained circuit can be used to classify the content of images—by encoding
```

the image into the physical state of the device and taking measurements.

The bigger picture: Making computers differentiable
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

:html:`<br>`

.. figure:: /_static/whatisml/applications.png
    :align: center
    :width: 50%
    :target: javascript:void(0);

:html:`<br>`

> But the story does not end here. Quantum circuits turn out to be *differentiable*, which means that a quantum computer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But the story does not end here. Quantum circuits turn out to be *differentiable*, which means that a quantum computer itself
```

Reviewer 2: Not sure if an improvement or not

> can compute the change in control parameters needed to become better at a given task. Differentiable programming

Reviewer 2: Can link to wikipedia page for differentiable programming here

is the very basis of deep learning, implemented in software libraries such as TensorFlow and PyTorch.
Differentiable programming is also more than deep learning: it is a programming paradigm where steps of an

> algorithm are not hand-coded but learnt.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
algorithm are not hand-coded but learned.
```
:stuck_out_tongue_winking_eye:

Reviewer 2: One could argue that the general high-level steps of the algorithm (i.e., the layers, the gates, the ops, etc.) are hand-coded, but left flexible so that they can later be tuned to specific purposes based on data. Not sure how to clearly make that point though, since we also do want to emphasize the "not hand-designed" angle

Similarly, the idea of trainable quantum computations is larger than quantum machine learning. It includes,

> and in fact originates from, a field called *quantum chemistry* :cite:`peruzzo2014variational`

Reviewer 2: Starting to think we need to shift away from citing references on these types of pages (which are not academic documents) and finding more suitable ways to point to relevant content (e.g., hyperlinks, wikipedia pages, etc)

Reviewer: Agree, especially because sphinx-bibtex is not the best plugin. Links that go straight to the source, without an inbetween page of references, is also more user friendly.

Author: For here I will try to keep paper references to a minimum, i.e. only in the last section. Or shall I replace entirely?

> or **quantum error correction** :cite:`johnson2017qvector`.

Reviewer 2: The citation links (e.g., `[R14]`) look really out of place with the rest of the flow of this page :frowning:

Author: I deleted them for now, and we can link glossary pages in the long run!

To find out more, visit the `PennyLane Documentation <https://pennylane.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>`_, or

> check out the gallery of `hands-on demonstrations <https://pennylane.ai/qml/demos.html>`_.

Reviewer 2: link not working

Author: Both links work in my local build (?). I replaced the second one with an internal reference ``:doc:hands-on demonstrations <demonstrations>``. 

Please confirm if they are still not working...

What is Quantum Machine Learning?
=================================

The limits of what machines can learn have always been defined by the computer hardware

> we run our algorithms on - for example, the success of modern-day deep learning  with neural networks is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we run our algorithms on --- for example, the success of modern-day deep learning  with neural networks is
```

enabled by parallel GPU clusters.

:html:`<br>`

.. figure:: ../_static/whatisml/Tesla-NVIDIA_GPU_cluster.jpg
    :align: left
    :width: 30%
    :target: javascript:void(0);

:html:`<br>`

Quantum machine learning extends the pool of hardware for machine learning by an entirely

> new type of computing device - the quantum computer. Information processing with quantum computers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
new type of computing device --- the quantum computer. Information processing with quantum computers
```

underlies substantially different laws of physics, namely quantum theory.

:html:`<br>`

.. figure:: ../_static/whatisml/quantum_hardware.png
    :align: left
    :width: 30%
    :target: javascript:void(0);

:html:`<br>`

While a lot of research focuses on ideal, universal quantum processing units (QPUs) whose development

> is still a thing of the future [REFs], a large share of quantum machine learning - and the share

Reviewer 3: What would the `[REFs]` parts refer to? Locally I'm getting `Citation <citation> is not referenced.` errors for a couple of things, could this be connected to it?

Author: I am so sorry. Someone my last push did not go through. That also explains why @josh146 cannot see the figures. Pushed it now with references.

> PennyLane caters for - is interested in near term quantum devices [REFs]. One can understand these devices

Reviewer: This sentence seems a bit odd to me, I had to read it a couple of times before it made sense. Maybe worth rewriting?

as special purpose hardware in between Application-Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs) and
Field-Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs).

:html:`<br>`

.. figure:: ../_static/whatisml/quantum_devices_ai.svg
    :align: left
    :width: 80%
    :target: javascript:void(0);

:html:`<br>`

> The quantum device is used like a neural network: Data gets "loaded" into the quantum state of the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The quantum device is used as a neural network: Data gets "loaded" into the quantum state of the
```

Reviewer 3: (Got from grammar checker, for me it wouldn't make too much of a difference :sweat_smile: )

> hardware and then processed. A measurement reveals the outcome of the machine learning model, for example

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
hardware and then processed. A measurement reveals the outcome of the machine learning model, for example,
```

if an image showed a cat or a dog. The crucial point is that near-term quantum computers are just physical
machines that are programmed by control parameters, such as an electromagnetic field. By systematically

> adapting these parameters, the quantum computation - and hence the machine learning algorithm - becomes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
adapting these parameters, the quantum computation --- and hence the machine learning algorithm --- becomes
```
